Add documentation on incidents (#94)
alphagov/design-system-team-docs: source/security/incidents.html.md

---
title: Incidents
weight: 1
last_reviewed_on: 2024-07-10
review_in: 6 months
---
# Incidents

> An incident is an unexpected event or error which disrupts the design system as a service. These can negatively impact our users' ability to use the design system, end users' ability to use government services and the security and trust of service teams and end users. When incidents happen, we need to be able to identify them and respond to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An incident is an unexpected event or error which disrupts the design system as a service. These can prevent users from accessing our guidance and code, impact government services, or threaten the security and trust of service teams and end users. When incidents happen, we need to be able to identify them and respond to them.
```

I found this a bit difficult to parse, but I'm not sure this suggestion has done much to help.

Author: I think it's better than it was. Committing.

> ## Am I having an incident?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Identifying an incident
```

- One or more of our platform accounts being compromised eg: npm, mailchimp, bitwarden
- Malicious code being shipped in govuk-frontend
- Linking to a malicious resource in our documentation eg: a port of govuk-frontend that contains malicious code
- A serious accessibility bug is shipped/discovered in govuk-frontend

### Examples of things that are not incidents

Note that it's still valuable to fix issues like these ones promptly but they don't need to be treated as incidents as they don't seriously impact the design system service.

- Inaccurate information on the design system website
- A non-blocking bug in govuk-frontend code
- An accessibility bug in govuk-frontend that doesn't block users from using services
- A user using the design system inappropriately
- A user needing technical support with the design system or govuk-frontend

## Responding to an incident

Once something has been identified as an incident, the most valuable thing to do is attempt to resolve it. However, it's important to follow procedure so that we can properly document and manage incidents during and after they happen.

Incidents take priority over all other work.

### Let the team know

> The first thing to do is let the team know an incident is happening. Post a message with a summary of the incident in progress. Use '@here' so that the whole team is aware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing to do is let the team know an incident is happening. Post a message on Slack with a summary of the incident in progress. Use '@here' so that the whole team is aware.
```

### Establish an incident team

You should assign 2 roles to help manage the incident:

1. An incident lead. This is someone who will coordinate the incident from discovery to resolution. It's recommended to pick an incident lead based on expertise, availability and knowledge of the problem.
2. A comms lead. This person will be responsible for communicating the incident and its status to the team, across our community channels and to key stakeholders.

Incidents are varied and can require different roles to resolve. You also may discover exactly which roles you need as the incident progresses. It's recommended to request roles on the team as you need them.

### Start an incident report

> The incident team at this point should start an incident report so that they can keep track of the incident, it's impact, it's severity, a timeline of events and, once resolved, a list of actions taken out of an incident review. You can find a template for incident reports, as well as a record of all previous incidents by year, [in the INCIDENTS folder in the team drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1plXDUGFIoyzWubWNC9J_IjMiEN8eh9pO).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The incident team at this point should start an incident report so that they can keep track of the incident, its impact, its severity, a timeline of events and, once resolved, a list of actions taken out of an incident review. You can find a template for incident reports, as well as a record of all previous incidents by year, [in the INCIDENTS folder in the team drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/1plXDUGFIoyzWubWNC9J_IjMiEN8eh9pO).
```

> The nature of incidents means that you may not have time to keep the report up to date as the incident is happening. If the incident team are unable to do this, you should update the incident report after it's been resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nature of incidents means that you may not have time to keep the report up to date as the incident is happening. If the incident team are unable to do this, you should update the incident report as soon as possible after it's been resolved.
```

Author: Aha, so originally I had this in, but the first sentence of the next section, immediately at the end of this sentence, reads:

>You should decide on a severity score for your incident as soon as possible. We have 4 levels of incident severity:

It feels a bit clunky to me having 'as soon as possible' followed by 'as soon as possible' again. Maybe that's actually fine? The secret agenda of these docs is to get folks to remember ot actually fill out and use the incident reports and not just forget about them, so I'd rather **order** folks to do it than be gentle. What do you reckon?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nature of incidents means that you may not have time to keep the report up to date as the incident is happening. If the incident team are unable to do this, you should update the incident at the earliest opportunity.
```

Maybe?

### Decide on severity

You should decide on a severity score for your incident as soon as possible. We have 4 levels of incident severity:

| Priority | Example |
| - | - |
| P1 | Malicious code in govuk-frontend |
| P2 | Malicious package masquerading as govuk-frontend |
| P3 | Design system website is down |
| P4 | Blocking bug introduced into a govuk-frontend component |

Once severity is identified, add it to the incident report. It may take a while to identify severity or the severity may change. A severity score should be decided at least before the incident review, but ideally much earlier.

### Inform key stakeholders

It's important to inform the DSP senior management team (SMT) about the incident as soon as possible, especially for P1 and P2 incidents. SMT can advise if further escalation is needed.

Send an email to dsp-incidents@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk with a summary of the incident to inform SMT and other key parties.

> If you are dealing with a [cyber security incident](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/section/about-ncsc/incident-management) that affects the security of the platform or our users and/or their data, the CO Digital team should also be informed so that they can assist if necessary. Include report@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk in your email to dsp-incidents to inform cyber.

Reviewer: Is this accurate as of the DSIT transition? I'm guessing it'd still work for now, but we should probably flag this to GDS SMT and make sure we have the right details.

Author: I was thinking about this as I wrote it. My take is that even though we're part of DSIT technically speaking, if a security incident happened today then we'd tell CO Digital, not whoever in DSIT manages cyber issues (who would we even tell?!). I completely agree we should let SMT know and add this to the list of CO things to change.

You should post comms in the #govuk-design-system channels on both GDS and cross-gov slack.

Don't send comms to the mailing list as service disruption isn't one of the options users have signed up to get emails about.

### Tackle the incident!

Finding the root cause, actioning and finishing an incident can take a variable amount of time, anywhere from a few minutes to several days. Even if an incident is taking a while to resolve, avoid working outside normal hours to resolve it. Instead, try to establish ways to mitigate the issue in hours until it's resolved. For example, if there's malicious code in a version of govuk-frontend, advise users to use a previous version until you remove the malicious code.

Additionally, continue to keep stakeholders, the team and (if appropriate) users informed. DSP SMT will be able to provide additional support if an incident is taking a while to resolve and advise if out of hours support is necessary.

## After an incident

Once an incident is resolved, you should have a complete report from which to work from for an incident review. If your report isn't complete, complete it as soon as possible after the resolution of the incident.

> ### Is my incident actually resolved?

Reviewer: This is a great addition based on the latest incident!
